README.md, before:

# Project Management System

## Architecture

### Backend (`/server`)

No plan to support data submitted through form for now.
Frontend `post` request should use `Content-Type: application/json`

API endpoints are grouped under `/api` url with following routes:

**`/api/login` (POST)**

Success (status code: 302): redirect user to `/dashboard`. Assign a session that expires in 2 weeks.

**`/api/signup` (POST)**

Success (status code: 302): redirect user to `/dashboard`. Create user in DB

## Dev Notes

### Prerequisites

Assume you have following softwares installed, if not, see link behind for instruction

- MongoDB ([install](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-community/))

### Choice of libraries

- Util: [lodash](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.4)
- Promise: [bluebird](http://bluebirdjs.com/docs/getting-started.html)
- Linting: [eslint](https://eslint.org/) and [standard](https://github.com/standard/standard)
- Test framework: [mocha](https://mochajs.org/))
- API Integration test: [supertest](https://github.com/visionmedia/supertest)
- Assertion Library: [chai/assert](http://chaijs.com/api/assert/)

### Data Models

> User

- **username (string, required)**: minimum 8 chars
- **password (string, required)**: encrypted with `bcrypt`

> Project

- **status (string, required, default:new)**: new, pending, expired
- **title (string, required)**: project title
- **experts (array, optional)**: a list of choosen experts for the choosen project

> Expert

- **firstname (string, required)**
- **lastname (string, optional**

### Authentication

- session based authentication (instead of token based authentication)

Token based authentication (JWT) is the new trend and has various advantages introduced
[here](https://auth0.com/blog/cookies-vs-tokens-definitive-guide/). But consider
that this is a project management system that is intended to be used by internal
staffs instead of millions of users outside, and both frontend and backend will
be served on the same domain, session based authentication is enough to handle
all requirements.

- implementation of session based authentication

Inspired by [this artical](https://medium.com/of-all-things-tech-progress/starting-with-authentication-a-tutorial-with-node-js-and-mongodb-25d524ca0359).
Also use [passport](http://www.passportjs.org/docs/) as it's quite reliable and mature for
various authentication needs.

Commit message:

DOC: why mongod needs to be preinstalled

README.md, after:

# Project Management System

## Architecture

### Backend (`/server`)

No plan to support data submitted through form for now.
Frontend `post` request should use `Content-Type: application/json`

API endpoints are grouped under `/api` url with following routes:

**`/api/login` (POST)**

Success (status code: 302): redirect user to `/dashboard`. Assign a session that expires in 2 weeks.

**`/api/signup` (POST)**

Success (status code: 302): redirect user to `/dashboard`. Create user in DB

## Dev Notes

### Prerequisites

Assume you have following softwares installed, if not, see link behind for instruction

- MongoDB ([install](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-community/)): `mongod` is needed to start `development` and `testing` database

### Choice of libraries

- Util: [lodash](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.4)
- Promise: [bluebird](http://bluebirdjs.com/docs/getting-started.html)
- Linting: [eslint](https://eslint.org/) and [standard](https://github.com/standard/standard)
- Test framework: [mocha](https://mochajs.org/))
- API Integration test: [supertest](https://github.com/visionmedia/supertest)
- Assertion Library: [chai/assert](http://chaijs.com/api/assert/)

### Data Models

> User

- **username (string, required)**: minimum 8 chars
- **password (string, required)**: encrypted with `bcrypt`

> Project

- **status (string, required, default:new)**: new, pending, expired
- **title (string, required)**: project title
- **experts (array, optional)**: a list of choosen experts for the choosen project

> Expert

- **firstname (string, required)**
- **lastname (string, optional**

### Authentication

- session based authentication (instead of token based authentication)

Token based authentication (JWT) is the new trend and has various advantages introduced
[here](https://auth0.com/blog/cookies-vs-tokens-definitive-guide/). But consider
that this is a project management system that is intended to be used by internal
staffs instead of millions of users outside, and both frontend and backend will
be served on the same domain, session based authentication is enough to handle
all requirements.

- implementation of session based authentication

Inspired by [this artical](https://medium.com/of-all-things-tech-progress/starting-with-authentication-a-tutorial-with-node-js-and-mongodb-25d524ca0359).
Also use [passport](http://www.passportjs.org/docs/) as it's quite reliable and mature for
various authentication needs.
